That's why I say I, like every American I'm speaking with, we're ill
about this position that we have been put in where it is the taxpayers
looking to bail out. But ultimately what the bailout does is help
those who are concerned about the healthcare reform that is needed to
help shore up our economy. Helping the it's got to be all about job
creation too, shoring up our economy and putting it back on the right
track. So health care reform and reducing taxes and reining in
spending has got to accompany tax reductions and tax relief for
Americans and trade we've got to see trade as opportunity, not as
competitive, scary thing, but one in five jobs being created in the
trade sector today we've got to look at that as more opportunity.

He's also known as the maverick though. Taking shots from his own
party, and certainly taking shots from the other party. Trying to get
people to understand what he's been talking about the need to reform
government.

We have trade missions back and forth. We we do it's very
important when you consider even national security issues with Russia
as Putin rears his head and comes into the air space of the United
States of America, where where do they go? It's Alaska. It's just
right over the border. It is from Alaska that we send those out to
make sure that an eye is being kept on this very powerful nation,
Russia, because they are right there. They are right next to to our
state.

Well, it certainly does because our our next door neighbors are
foreign countries. They're in the state that I am the executive
of. And there in Russia

Diplomacy is about doing a lot of background work first and shoring up
allies and positions and figuring out what sanctions perhaps could be
implemented if things weren't gonna go right.

I thought yes, right off the bat. When he offered me the
position, as his running mate, the first thing I said to him was, if
you really think that I can help the ticket, if you really think I can
help this country, absolutely, I want to do this with you.

I answered him yes because I have the confidence in that readiness. And 
knowing that you can't blink. You have to be wired in a
way of being so committed to the mission, the mission that we're on,
reform of this country, and victory in the war. You can't blink. So, I
didn't blink then even, when asked to run as his running mate.

We got to remember what the desire is in this nation, at this time. It
is for no more politics as usual. And somebody's big, fat resume
maybe that shows decades and decades in that Washington establishment,
where, yeah, they've had opportunity to meet heads of state.

You know, there is a very small percentage of Islamic believers who
are extreme, and they are violent, and they do not believe in American
ideals. And they attacked us. And now we are at a point, here, seven
years later, on the anniversary, in this post-9/11 world, where we are
able to commit to never again. The only option for them is to become a
suicide bomber, to get caught up in this evil, in this terror. They
need to be provided the hope that all Americans have, instilled in us,
because we're a democratic, we are a free and we are a free-thinking
society.

As Putin rears his head and comes into the air space of the United
States of America, where do they go? It's Alaska. It's just right over
the border. It is from Alaska that we send those out to make sure that
an eye is being kept on this very powerful nation, Russia, because
they are right there, they are right next to our state.

He's got the track record of the leadership qualities and the
pragmatism that's needed at a crisis time like this.

I'm not looking at poll numbers. What I think Americans at the end of
the day are going to be able to go back and look at track records and
see who's more apt to be talking about solutions and wishing for and
hoping for solutions for some opportunity to change, and who's
actually done it?

That's something that John McCain and I have both been discussing
whether that is part of the solution or not. You know, it's going
to be a multi-faceted solution that has to be found here.

Consumers and those who were predator lenders also. That's, you
know, that has to be considered also. But again, it's got to be a
comprehensive, long-term solution found for this problem that
America is facing today. As I say, we are getting into crisis mode
here.

I think that the example that you just cited, with his warnings two
years ago about Fannie and Freddie - that, that's paramount. That's
more than a heck of a lot of other senators and representatives did
for us.

I can give you examples of things that John McCain has done, that has
shown his foresight, his pragmatism, and his leadership abilities. And
that is what America needs today.

I'll try to find you some and I'll bring them to you.

I believe that what President Bush has attempted to do is rid this
world of Islamic extremism, terrorists who are hell bent on destroying
our nation. There have been blunders along the way, though. There have
been mistakes made. And with new leadership, and that's the beauty of
American elections, of course, and democracy, is with new leadership
comes opportunity to do things better.

But it is about reform of government and it's about putting government
back on the side of the people, and that has much to do with foreign
policy and national security issues Let me speak specifically about a
credential that I do bring to this table, and that's with the
energy independence that I've been working on for these years as the
governor of this state that produces nearly 20 percent of the
U.S. domestic supply of energy, that I worked on as chairman of the
Alaska Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, overseeing the oil and gas
development in our state to produce more for the United States.

I want you to not lose sight of the fact that energy is a foundation
of national security. It's that important. It's that significant.

I have not and I think if you go back in history and if you ask that
question of many vice presidents, they may have the same answer that I
just gave you. But, again, we've got to remember what the
desire is in this nation at this time. It is for no more politics as
usual and somebody's big, fat resume maybe that shows decades and
decades in that Washington establishment, where, yes, they've had
opportunities to meet heads of state these last couple of weeks it has
been overwhelming to me that confirmation of the message that
Americans are getting sick and tired of that self-dealing and kind of
that closed door, good old boy network that has been the Washington
elite.

I don't know if the task is from God. What I know is that my
son has made a decision. I am so proud of his independent and strong
decision he has made, what he decided to do and serving for the right
reasons and serving something greater than himself and not choosing a
real easy path where he could be more comfortable and certainly safer.

First off, we're going to continue good relations with Saakashvili
there. I was able to speak with him the other day and giving him my
commitment, as John McCain's running mate, that we will be committed
to Georgia. And we've got to keep an eye on Russia. For Russia to have
exerted such pressure in terms of invading a smaller democratic
country, unprovoked, is unacceptable and we have to keep.

 I do believe unprovoked and we have got to keep our eyes on Russia,
 under the leadership there. I think it was unfortunate. That
 manifestation that we saw with that invasion of Georgia shows us some
 steps backwards that Russia has recently taken away from the race
 toward a more democratic nation with democratic ideals.That's why we
 have to keep an eye on Russia.

And, you're in Alaska. We have that very narrow maritime
border between the United States, and the 49th state, Alaska, and
Russia. They are our next door neighbors.We need to have a good
relationship with them. They're very, very important to us and they
are our next door neighbor.

They're our next door neighbors and you can actually see Russia from
land here in Alaska, from an island in Alaska.

Well, I'm giving you that perspective of how small our world is and
how important it is that we work with our allies to keep good relation
with all of these countries, especially Russia. We will not repeat a
Cold War. We must have good relationship with our allies, pressuring,
also, helping us to remind Russia that it's in their benefit, also, a
mutually beneficial relationship for us all to be getting along.

And we have got to be vigilant. We have got to show the support, in
this case, for Georgia. The support that we can show is economic
sanctions perhaps against Russia, if this is what it leads to.

It doesn't have to lead to war and it doesn't have to lead, as I said,
to a Cold War, but economic sanctions, diplomatic pressure, again,
counting on our allies to help us do that in this mission of keeping
our eye on Russia and Putin and some of his desire to control and to
control much more than smaller democratic countries.

His mission, if it is to control energy supplies, also, coming from
and through Russia, that's a dangerous position for our world to be
in, if we were to allow that to happen.

We have got to make sure that these weapons of mass destruction, that
nuclear weapons are not given to those hands of Ahmadinejad, not that
he would use them, but that he would allow terrorists to be able to
use them. So we have got to put the pressure on Iran and we have got
to count on our allies to help us, diplomatic pressure.

We need to pursue those and we need to implement those. We cannot back
off. We cannot just concede that, oh, gee, maybe they're going to have
nuclear weapons, what can we do about it. No way, not Americans. We do
not have to stand for that.

I believe that America has to exercise all options in order to stop
the terrorists who are hell bent on destroying America and our
allies. We have got to have all options out there on the table.

I think our presence in Iraq and Afghanistan will lead to further
security of our nation, again, because the mission is to take the
fight over there. do not let them come over here and attempt again
what they accomplished here, and that was some destruction. terrible
destruction on that day. but since September 11, Americans uniting and
rebuilding and committing to never letting that happen again.

I agree with the Bush administration that we take the fight to
them. We never again let them come onto our soil and try to destroy
not only our democracy, but communities like the community of New
York. Never again. So yes, I do agree with taking the fight to the
terrorists and stopping them over there.

Oil and coal? Of course, it's a fungible commodity and they don't flag, you know, the molecules, where it's going and where it's not. But in the sense of the Congress today, they know that there are very, very hungry domestic markets that need that oil first. So, I believe that what Congress is going to do, also, is not to allow the export bans to such a degree that it's Americans that get stuck to holding the bag without the energy source that is produced here, pumped here. It's got to flow into our domestic markets first.

As for that VP talk all the time, I'll tell you, I still can't answer that question until somebody answers for me what is it exactly that the VP does every day?

I think God's will has to be done in unifying people and companies to get that gas line built, so pray for that.

I see the United States as being a force for good in the world. And as Ronald Reagan used to talk about, America being the beacon of light and hope for those who are seeking democratic values and tolerance and freedom. I see our country being able to represent those things that can be looked to as that leadership, that light needed across the world.

I'm not one of those who maybe came from a background of, you know, kids who perhaps graduate college and their parents give them a passport and give them a backpack and say go off and travel the world. 

No, I've worked all my life. In fact, I usually had two jobs all my life until I had kids. I was not a part of, I guess, that culture. The way that I have understood the world is through education, through books, through mediums that have provided me a lot of perspective on the world. 

Because we can't afford to lose in Afghanistan, as we cannot afford to lose in Iraq, either, these central fronts on the war on terror. And I asked President Karzai, "Is that what you are seeking, also? That strategy that has worked in Iraq that John McCain had pushed for, more troops? A counterinsurgency strategy?" And he said, "yes." And he also showed great appreciation for what America and American troops are providing in his country. 

But no, the Pakistani people also, they want freedom. They want democratic values to be allowed in their country, also. They understand the dangers of terrorists having a stronghold in regions of their country, also. And I believe that they, too, want to rid not only their country, but the world, of violent Islamic terrorists.

We don't have to second-guess what their efforts would be if they believe that it is in their country and their allies, including us, all of our best interests to fight against a regime, especially Iran, who would seek to wipe them off the face of the earth. It is obvious to me who the good guys are in this one and who the bad guys are. The bad guys are the ones who say Israel is a stinking corpse and should be wiped off the face of the earth. That's not a good guy who is saying that. Now, one who would seek to protect the good guys in this, the leaders of Israel and her friends, her allies, including the United States, in my world, those are the good guys. 

Through reform, absolutely.  Look at the oversight that has been lack, I believe, here at the 1930s type of regulatory regime overseeing some of these corporations.  And we’ve got to get a more coordinated and a much more stringent oversight regime…government can play a very, very appropriate role in the oversight as people are trusting these companies with their life savings, with their investments, with their insurance policies, and construction bonds, and everything else.

When we see the collapse that we’re seeing today, you know that something is broken and John McCain has a great plan to get in there and fix it.

It is that profound and that important an issue that we work together on this, and not just let one party try to kind of grab it all or capture it all and pretend like they have all the answers.  It’s going to take everybody working together on this.

I think the corruption on Wall Street.  That’s to blame.  And that violation of the public trust.  And that contract that should be inherent in corporations who are spending, investing other people’s money, the abuse of that is what has got to stop.

Spending that, investing that, not using the prudence that we expect of them.  But here again, government has got to play an appropriate role in the stringent oversight, making sure that those abuses stop.

Well, you know, first, Fannie and Freddie, different because quasi-government agencies there where government had to step in because of the adverse impacts all across our nation, especially with homeowners.

It’s just too impacting, we had to step in there.  I do not like the idea though of taxpayers being used to bailout these corporations.  Today it was AIG, important call there, though, because of the construction bonds and the insurance carrier duties of AIG.

But first and foremost, taxpayers cannot be looked to as the bailout, as the solution to the problems on Wall Street.

Well, it was an unfair attack on the verbiage that Senator McCain chose to use because the fundamentals, as he was having to explain afterwards, he means our workforce, he means the ingenuity of the American people.  And of course, that is strong and that is the foundation of our economy.

 It is, somebody was saying this morning, a toxic waste there on Wall Street, affecting Main Street.  And we’ve got to cure this.

I think that’s significant, but even more significant is the role that the lobbyists play in an issue like this also.  And in that cronyism it’s symptomatic of the grade of problem that we see right now in Washington and that is just that acceptance of the status quo, the politics as usual, the cronyism that has been allowed to be accepted and then it leads us to a position like we are today with so much collapse on Wall Street. That’s the reform that we’ve got to get in there and make sure that this happens. We’ve got to put government and these regulatory agencies back on the side of the people.

It’s a nice thing about him, too, is he is not asking me or anybody else to check our opinions at the door.  He wants that healthy deliberation and debate with it.

I believe that Republicans in Washington have got to understand that the people of America are not fully satisfied with all the all the dealings within the party.  The same it applies for the other party, also.  Americans are just getting sick and tired of politics as usual, that embracing of the status quo, going with the flow and just assuming that the people of America are not noticing that we have opportunities for good change.  We have opportunity for a healthier, safer, more prosperous and energy-independent nation at this time.  People are getting tired of a process that’s not allowing that process that progress to be ushered in.
